DOCSP-49972 Choose a Connection Target (#514)
mongodb/docs-golang: source/connect/connection-targets.txt

In this guide, you can learn how to use a connection string and a ``MongoClient`` 
object to connect to different types of MongoDB deployments by using the Go driver.

.. tip::

   To see how to create and configure your ``MongoClient`` object, see the :ref:`Create a Mongo Client <golang-mongoclient>` page.

.. _go-atlas-connection-target:

Connect to Atlas
----------------

To connect to a MongoDB deployment on Atlas, include the following elements
in your connection string:

- URL of your Atlas cluster
- MongoDB username
- MongoDB password

Then, pass your connection string to the ``MongoClient`` constructor.

When you connect to Atlas, we recommend using the {+stable-api+} client option to avoid
breaking changes when Atlas upgrades to a new version of {+mdb-server+}.
To learn more about the {+stable-api+} feature, see the :ref:`<golang-stable-api>`
guide.

The following code shows how you can create a client that uses an Atlas
connection string and the {+stable-api+} version, connect to MongoDB, and
verify that the connection is successful:

.. _go-connection-example-code:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-snippets/srv.go
   :language: go

.. important::

>    New Serverless instances can no longer be created, and as of May 5 2025, all
>    existing Serverless instances will be migrated. The `All Clusters
>    <https://cloud.mongodb.com/v2#/clusters>`__ page in the Atlas UI shows which tiers
>    your instances will be migrated to, based on usage. See the :ref:`Manage
>    Serverless Instances <manage-serverless-instances>` page to learn more about
>    how to manually handle existing Serverless instances.

Reviewer: Suggestion: Should we move this to past tense since this date has happened?

```suggestion
   New Serverless instances can no longer be created, and as of May 5 2025, all
   existing Serverless instances have been migrated. The `All Clusters
   <https://cloud.mongodb.com/v2#/clusters>`__ page in the Atlas UI shows which tiers
   your instances are migrated to based on usage. See the :ref:`Manage
   Serverless Instances <manage-serverless-instances>` page to learn more about
   how to manually handle existing Serverless instances.
```

-----------------------

A MongoDB replica set deployment is a group of connected instances that
store the same set of data. This configuration provides data
redundancy and high data availability.

To connect to a replica set deployment, specify the hostname and port numbers
of each instance, separated by commas, and the replica set name as the value
of the ``replicaSet`` parameter in the connection string. In the following
example, the hostnames are ``host1``, ``host2``, and ``host3``, and the
port numbers are all ``27017``. The replica set name is ``myRS``.

.. code-block:: none

   mongodb://host1:27017,host2:27017,host3:27017/?replicaSet=myRS

When connecting to a replica set, the driver takes the following actions by default:

- Discovers all replica set members when given the address of any one member.
- Dispatches operations to the appropriate member, such as instructions
  to write against the **primary**.

.. tip::

   You can specify just one host to connect to a replica set.
   However, to ensure connectivity when the specified host
   is unavailable, you should provide the full list of hosts.

.. _go-direct-connection-target:

Direct Connection
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To force operations on the host designated in the connection URI,

Reviewer: Suggestion: We say both connection string and connection URI, but I suggest being consistent on this page. 

```suggestion
To force operations on the host designated in the connection string,
```

specify the ``directConnection`` option. Direct connections exhibit the
following behavior:

- They don't support SRV strings.
- They fail on writes when the specified host is not the **primary**.
- They require you to specify a **secondary** node with :ref:`secondary read
  preference <read-preference-use-cases>` when the specified host isn't the
  **primary** node.

.. note:: Replica Set in Docker

   .. sharedinclude:: dbx/docker-replica-set.rst

API Documentation
-----------------

To learn more about connecting to different MongoDB instances with a
``MongoClient``, see the `MongoClient API
Documentation <https://mongodb.github.io/node-mongodb-native/6.17/classes/MongoClient.html>`__.

> 

Reviewer: I recommend linking out to the specific types and methods used on this page. See the 
```suggestion
API Documentation
-----------------

To learn more about connecting to different MongoDB instances with a
``MongoClient``, see the [Aggregation page](https://deploy-preview-512--docs-golang.netlify.app/indexes/#api-documentation) for reference.
